{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1984\margr1701\margt1701\margb1701
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 CHAPTER FOUR\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 SYSTEM ANALYSIS\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.0 Overview\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 This chapter presents the system analysis for the proposed Decentralized Academic Credentials Verification system. It examines the feasibility of developing and implementing the system, describes the current system used in academic credential issuance and verification, and highlights the weaknesses that justify the need for the proposed solution.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.1 Feasibility Study\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 A feasibility study is an evaluation carried out to determine whether a proposed system is practical and suitable for implementation within a given environment. For the Decentralized Academic Credentials Verification system, the study focused on technical, economic, operational, legal, and schedule feasibility.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.1.1 Technical Feasibility\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system is technically feasible because it can be developed using available web technologies, backend services, databases, and decentralized verification tools. Users can access the platform using internet-enabled computers and smartphones.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.1.2 Economic Feasibility\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system is economically feasible because open-source technologies reduce development cost while the platform is expected to reduce verification delays, paperwork, and fraud-related losses.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.1.3 Operational Feasibility\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system is operationally feasible because it addresses real needs of institutions, students, employers, and administrators. User training will still be important for successful adoption.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.1.4 Legal Feasibility\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system is legally feasible provided access control, privacy, and institutional data governance requirements are observed during deployment and use.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.1.5 Schedule Feasibility\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The project is schedule-feasible because development can be completed in phases including planning, analysis, design, implementation, testing, and documentation within the academic timeline.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 4.1: Summary of Feasibility Study\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Technical | Technology and expertise availability | System can be built using available tools | Feasible\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Economic | Cost versus benefit | Open-source tools reduce cost | Feasible\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Operational | Ability to work in real environment | Stakeholders can use the system with training | Feasible\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Legal | Compliance with rules and policy | Requires access control and privacy protection | Feasible\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Schedule | Ability to finish in time | Work can be completed in phases | Feasible\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.2 Description of Current System\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The current system used for academic credential issuance and verification is largely manual or based on isolated centralized processes. Academic certificates are usually printed, signed, and physically issued to students, while verification is carried out through phone calls, letters, or email communication with the issuing institution.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.2.1 Functional Components of the Current System\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Certificate preparation by the academic institution.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Manual approval, signing, stamping, and printing.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Physical issuance of the certificate to the student.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Storage of duplicate records in files or institutional databases.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Manual verification by employers or other institutions.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Administrative follow-up by institutional staff.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.2.2 Weaknesses of the Current System\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The current system is slow, susceptible to forgery, difficult to track, and does not provide a common trusted platform for instant verification.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 4.2: Weaknesses of the Current System\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Certificate issuance | Manual printing and signing | Time-consuming | Delays in receiving credentials\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Record storage | Physical files or isolated databases | Risk of loss and inconsistency | Difficult retrieval of records\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Verification | Calls, emails, letters | Slow and unreliable | Delayed decisions\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Fraud detection | Manual inspection | Weak detection capability | Fake certificates may pass\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Revocation tracking | Manual follow-up | Poor visibility | Invalid credentials may still circulate\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 4.3 Summary of System Analysis\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system analysis established that the proposed Decentralized Academic Credentials Verification system is feasible and necessary. The analysis of the current system revealed major weaknesses including slow verification, weak fraud control, manual record handling, and limited transparency. These challenges justify the development of a decentralized system capable of providing secure, efficient, and trusted academic credential verification.\par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 4.1: Existing Manual Academic Credential Issuance and Verification Process\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 CHAPTER FIVE\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 SYSTEM DESIGN\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.0 Overview\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 This chapter presents the design of the proposed Decentralized Academic Credentials Verification system. It describes the proposed system, outlines its functional and non-functional requirements, and presents the logical and physical design of the system.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.1 Description of the Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The proposed system is a web-based decentralized platform for issuing, managing, sharing, and verifying academic credentials. It enables institutions to issue secure digital credentials, allows students to access and manage their credentials, and gives employers the ability to verify credentials quickly and reliably.\par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 5.1: Home Page of the Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2 Functional Requirements of the Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.1 User Authentication and Access Control\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system shall support secure login, role assignment, and restricted access based on user permissions.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.2 Institution Functions\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system shall support institution onboarding, credential issuance, credential revocation, student management, and bulk import.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.3 Student Functions\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system shall allow students to view, claim, share, and manage privacy settings for their credentials.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.4 Employer and Verifier Functions\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system shall support single and bulk credential verification and display clear verification outcomes.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.5 Administrative Functions\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system shall support approval workflows, monitoring, analytics, and audit review.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.6 Interface Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The interface shall validate input correctly and provide clear navigation and feedback messages.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.7 Business Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Required data must be provided before credential issuance and only authorized roles may perform key operations.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.8 Regulatory and Compliance Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system shall maintain audit trails and restrict access to authorized users only.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.2.9 Security Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system shall enforce role-based access control and log critical operations.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 5.1: Functional Requirements of the Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR1 | Support user login and authentication | All users | High\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR2 | Enforce role-based access control | All users | High\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR3 | Allow institution onboarding | Institution/Admin | High\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR4 | Allow credential issuance | Institution Admin | High\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR5 | Allow credential revocation | Institution Admin | High\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR6 | Allow students to claim credentials | Student | High\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR7 | Allow students to share credentials | Student | High\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR8 | Allow single credential verification | Employer | High\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - FR9 | Support bulk verification | Employer | Medium\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3 Non-Functional Requirements of the Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.1 Performance Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system should return results quickly during normal verification and dashboard use.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.2 Security Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system should protect data through authentication, authorization, and audit logging.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.3 Usability Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The interface should be easy to learn and use.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.4 Reliability Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system should provide accurate and dependable verification results.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.5 Scalability Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system should support future growth in users and records.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.6 Maintainability Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system should be modular and easy to update.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.7 Availability Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system should remain accessible whenever users need it.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.8 Data Integrity Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system should preserve correctness and consistency of credential records.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.3.9 Interoperability Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The system should interact effectively with supporting services and platforms.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 5.2: Non-Functional Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Performance | Fast system response | Improves efficiency\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Security | Protects credentials and user data | Critical\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Usability | Easy to learn and use | Supports adoption\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Reliability | Accurate and dependable results | Builds trust\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Scalability | Supports future growth | Long-term benefit\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Maintainability | Easy to update and improve | Supports future work\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Availability | Accessible when needed | Ensures continuity\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Data Integrity | Correct and consistent records | Prevents misinformation\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Interoperability | Works with other services | Enables integration\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.4 Logical Design of Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Logical design gives an abstract view of how the system functions. It identifies the major processes, data flows, data stores, actors, and system interactions.\par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 5.15: Use Case Diagram for the Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 5.16: Data Flow Diagram for the Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 5.17: Entity Relationship Diagram\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.5 Physical Design of Proposed System\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.5.1 Input Design\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 5.3: Input Design Specification\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Email address | User | Text | Must be valid email format\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Password | User | Text | Must meet minimum length\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Issue date | Institution Admin | Date | Must be valid date\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Expiry date | Institution Admin | Date | Must not be earlier than issue date\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Token ID | Employer | Numeric/Text | Must exist in the system\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - CSV upload | Institution Admin | File | Must be valid CSV format\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.5.2 Output Design\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 5.4: Output Design Specification\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Verification result | Employer/Verifier | Screen display | Confirms authenticity\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Credential details | Student | Screen display | Shows credential information\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Analytics summary | Admin/Employer | Dashboard/report | Tracks system activity\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Audit log | Admin | Table/report | Supports accountability\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Bulk import result | Institution Admin | Screen/table | Shows processing outcome\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.5.3 Database Design\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 5.18: Physical Database Structure\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 5.5.5 Hardware and Software Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 5.5: Hardware and Software Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Processor | Dual-core processor or higher\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - RAM | 4 GB minimum, 8 GB recommended\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Storage | Adequate space for application files and data\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Operating System | Windows, Linux, or macOS\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Browser | Updated Chrome, Edge, or Firefox\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Internet | Stable internet connection\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Runtime Environment | Node.js\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Database Support | Local or hosted database\par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 CHAPTER SIX\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.0 Overview\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 This chapter presents the implementation of the Decentralized Academic Credentials Verification system. It explains how the developed system was tested, installed, and prepared for use.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.1 System Testing\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.1.1 Unit Testing\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Unit testing was conducted on authentication, credential issuance, verification, validation, and administrative functions.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 6.1: Unit Testing Summary\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Authentication | Login with valid credentials | User logged in | User logged in | Pass\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Authentication | Login with invalid credentials | Access denied | Access denied | Pass\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Credential issuance | Submit valid credential data | Credential issued | Credential issued | Pass\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Credential issuance | Submit incomplete data | Validation error | Validation error | Pass\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Verification | Verify valid credential | Status valid | Status valid | Pass\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Verification | Verify revoked credential | Status revoked | Status revoked | Pass\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.1.2 Integration Testing\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Integration testing was used to confirm that the frontend, backend, database, and verification components work correctly together.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 6.2: Integration Testing Summary\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Frontend + Backend | Submit login request | User authenticated and dashboard opens | Successful\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Frontend + Backend + Database | Institution registration | Request saved successfully | Successful\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Issuance + Processing | Issue new credential | Credential recorded and confirmation shown | Successful\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Student + Sharing | Share credential | Share link/token created | Successful\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Employer + Verification | Verify credential | Correct result displayed | Successful\par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 6.1: Successful Credential Verification Result\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 6.2: Successful Credential Issuance or Minting Confirmation\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 6.3: Student Credential Dashboard\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Figure 6.4: Bulk Import or Processing Status Screen\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.2 System Changeover / Installation\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.2.1 Direct Changeover\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Direct changeover replaces the old system immediately and carries higher risk.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.2.2 Parallel Changeover\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Parallel changeover runs the old and new systems together for comparison.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.2.3 Phased Changeover\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Phased changeover introduces the system in modules or stages.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.2.4 Pilot Changeover\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Pilot changeover introduces the system first to a limited environment before full rollout.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.2.5 Recommended Changeover Method\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Pilot changeover supported by phased deployment is the most suitable method for this project.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.2.6 Installation Procedure\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Install the required software tools.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Configure the environment files required by the system.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Set up the application database and run required migration processes.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Configure the verification components.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Update system configuration with the required connection details.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Start backend services and frontend application.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Test major workflows and train users.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 6.3: Installation Requirements and Procedure\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - 1 | Install software prerequisites | Environment ready\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - 2 | Configure environment settings | Settings saved correctly\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - 3 | Set up database | Database ready for use\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - 4 | Configure verification components | Verification services available\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - 5 | Start backend service | Backend running successfully\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - 6 | Start frontend service | User interface accessible\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - 7 | Test major workflows | Core features confirmed operational\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.3 Documentation\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.3.1 Internal Documentation\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Internal documentation includes source code comments, system setup notes, architecture descriptions, and database schema descriptions.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 6.3.2 External Documentation\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 External documentation includes the user manual, operation manual, installation guide, test report, and feasibility report.\par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 CHAPTER SEVEN\b0 \par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 7.0 Achievements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The project achieved its main objective of providing a secure and efficient platform for issuing, managing, sharing, and verifying academic credentials.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 7.1 Challenges\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Challenges included integration complexity, data consistency, user readiness, and project resource limitations.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 7.2 Proposed System Limitations\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Limitations include internet dependence, user familiarity requirements, and the need for more production hardening.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 7.3 Recommendation / Future Work\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Future work should improve integration, scalability, usability, monitoring, and institutional deployment readiness.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 7.4 Conclusion\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 The proposed system offers a practical and innovative approach to academic credential verification by improving trust, transparency, and efficiency.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 Table 7.1: Summary of Achievements, Challenges, Limitations and Recommendations\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Achievements | Secure platform for issuing, managing, sharing, and verifying academic credentials\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Challenges | Integration complexity, user readiness, and time constraints\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Limitations | Internet dependence, adoption barriers, and production-readiness considerations\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Recommendations | Improve scalability, integration, usability, and deployment readiness\par
\pard\qc\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs32 APPENDICES\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 APPENDIX A: FEASIBILITY STUDY REPORT\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 A.1 Introduction\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 This feasibility study was conducted to determine whether the proposed Decentralized Academic Credentials Verification system is practical, sustainable, and suitable for implementation.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 A.2 Purpose of the Feasibility Study\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Determine whether the required technology and resources are available.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Assess whether the project can be completed within the available time.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Evaluate the expected costs and benefits.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Determine whether intended users will be able to operate the system effectively.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Assess whether the system can comply with legal and institutional requirements.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 A.3 Types of Feasibility Considered\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Technical Feasibility\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Economic Feasibility\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Operational Feasibility\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Legal Feasibility\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Schedule Feasibility\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 A.4 Findings of the Study\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - The proposed system is technically achievable.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - The expected benefits justify the implementation cost.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - Users can adopt the system with proper training.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - The system can be implemented in compliance with legal and institutional requirements.\par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 - The project can be completed within the available time.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 A.5 Conclusion of the Feasibility Study\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Based on the findings, the proposed system is feasible and suitable for implementation.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 APPENDIX B: USER / OPERATION MANUAL\b0 \par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.1 Introduction\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 This manual provides guidance on how to use the Decentralized Academic Credentials Verification system.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.2 System Requirements\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Users require a computer or smartphone, a modern web browser, internet connectivity, and valid credentials.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.3 Accessing the System\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Open the system URL, click the login button, enter the required credentials, and select the appropriate role where applicable.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.4 Login Procedure\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Navigate to the login page, enter your email address and password, and click the login button.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.5 Institution Administrator Operations\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Institution administrators can issue credentials, revoke credentials, and carry out bulk imports.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.6 Student Operations\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Students can view, claim, share, and manage privacy settings for their credentials.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.7 Employer / Verifier Operations\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Employers can verify a single credential or carry out bulk verification.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.8 Administrator Operations\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Administrators can approve institutions and review system logs and reports.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.9 Troubleshooting Guide\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Check credentials, network access, input correctness, and user permissions when issues occur.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.10 Security Guidelines\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Keep credentials private, log out after use, and report suspicious activity.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 B.11 Conclusion\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 This manual provides the basic operational steps required to use the system effectively.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 APPENDIX C: TEST CASES AND RESULTS\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Include Table 6.1, Table 6.2, and Figures 6.1 to 6.4 in this appendix.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 APPENDIX D: ADDITIONAL SCREENSHOTS\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Include Figures 5.1 to 5.14 in this appendix where appropriate.\par
\pard\ql\sl480\slmult1 \b \f0\fs24 APPENDIX E: SUPPORTING DIAGRAMS\b0 \par
\pard\qj\sl480\slmult1 \f0\fs24 Include Figure 4.1 and Figures 5.15 to 5.18 in this appendix.\par
}